Forecasting is an important approach to plan the future effectively and
efficiently. A time series is a sequence of data points, typically consisting of
successive measurements made over a uniform time interval. Time series
forecasting is the use of a model to predict future values based on previously
observed values.
A leading retailer in USA, wants to forecast sales for their product categories in
their store based on the sales history of each category. Sales forecast has very high
influence on the performance of the company’s business and hence these sales
forecasts can be used to estimate company’s success or performance in the
coming year. Accurate forecasts may lead to better decisions in business.
Sales or revenues forecasting is very important for retail operations . Forecasting of
retail sales helps retailer to take necessary measures to plan their budgets or
investments in a period (monthly, yearly) among different product categories
like women clothing, men clothing and other clothing and at the same time they
can plan to minimize revenue loss from unavailability of products by investing
accordingly.
.
Main Tasks:
1. Target attribute is “Sales(In ThousandDollars)”
2. You are expected to build a framework that provides monthly forecasts of
the next 12 months for each product category (3 product categories)
with past sales history using time series model.
3. You are expected to build a framework that provides monthly forecasts of
the next 12 months for “WomenClothing” product category alone
with other causal attributes using regression model.
a. Compare the results obtained from time series model and regression
model for “WomenClothing” product category and analyse the
impact of causal variables.
Methodologies:
The forecasting is expected to be made for next 12 months ie., from Jan
2016 to Dec 2106 using Time series model and also regression model as
cited below:
1. Based on sales history using time series model for each product category
2. Based on other various influencing factors of the sales such as Holiday
events, weather changes, macro economic factors etc. using the
regression model for “WomenClothing” product category alone.
The datasets are provided as cited below for the
Retail Sales Forecasting:
1. Sales data: “Train.csv”
1. This table contains the Temporal data like Year, Month, and Product
category and Sales (In ThousandDollars), provided for the period 2009
to 2015
2. Weather data: “WeatherData.xlsx”
2. This is obtained for the period from 2009 to 2016 from different sources
and has the information about the weather conditions like temperature,
wind speed, humidity, visibility, precipitation etc.
3. Event/Holidays data: “Events_HolidaysData.xlsx”
3. It’s obvious that we shop more during the holidays or during festivals
etc. Hence, the event data for the period from 2009 to 2016 has the
information like Year, Month-Date, Event, Day category(federal holiday
or event)
4. Macro Economic Data: “MacroEconomicData.xlsx”
4. This data is provided for the period from 2009 to 2016 with the details
like CPI, GDP, Cotton production, mill usage, unemployment rate etc.
5. Attributes Details : “AttributesDescription.xlsx”
5. This has the details of attributes for the datasets cited above (1 to 4)
Using the data given, you must come up with the model/models that
can forecast the monthly sales for 2016
